I've got quite the collection of 4
terabyte t705 ssds from crucial yeah
these came from Micro Center I had to
buy these for like legitimate project
reasons what do you do with 16 tabt of
flash how do you even get this connected
well most of the time you're going to
want to use a pcie bifurcation card and
your motherboard also has to support it
so you have to have a a PCI card
basically that'll hold a bunch of m. tws
well IC do to the rescue again this is
icy dos 4 by x16 adapter
card and this was actually cooler than I
thought it was going to be so we're
going to take a look at it this is the
MB 204 mpb this is a pcie card that is
designed for motherboards that support
PCI bifurcation but this thing takes
maintenance to a whole new level let's
take a closer
[Music]
look now if you're into building
workstations you follow this channel for
a while you know that I've covered a lot
of other IC do products in the past
whether you're building a small server
or a specialty server or a workstation
and you want something like removable
u.2 drives or you want to build an array
of u.2 or you're adding optain where it
doesn't belong icy do is the physical
connection for when I added optain to
thread Ripper it's like an Intel optain
product running on AMD stuff it's fine
it's just pcie the IC do not only
provides the con connection it provides
the connection in style not this
particular one but the other IC doc
stuff I've covered in the past your
motherboard still has to support the
bifurcation as I said so you have to be
able to turn that x16 slot into four
physical
slots but check out this pcie card it
has four Bays on top now technically m.2
is not hot swap so this is not a hot
swap adapter but this is designed for
servers and
workstations and so behind me I've
actually got set up my Falcon Northwest
56 cor Zeon workstation as well as an
AMD epic Turin server that I've put
together now the Turin server is based
on the new F CPU 64 cores 5 GHz this is
the fastest clock speed we've ever had
in a server and because I'm kind of
diying this I need some uh some
connectivity it's in a Silverstone case
Silverstone has options for adding hot
Swap and everything else but again m.2
get the m.2 option this is another Bay
from IC do this is the MB o 21 VP that
I've used in the past in several builds
it's basically an eject button this goes
in a 3 and 1/2 in Drive slot and
then you plug the drive in like that and
you're good to go and this will work
with even 15 mm u.2 drives the problem
is that those t705 so I've got the the
IC dog m.2 to u.2 adapter which
theoretically this makes it physically
hot plug for an m.2 so those t705 it's
like oh all of a sudden we can use those
in server yes you can use those in
servers assuming that you get something
that is Gen 5 compatible but the problem
is when you start stringing Gen 5
devices into adapters like this so your
your m.2 goes in here and then the heat
sink goes
on and it is quite a heat sink and then
this will slide into your u.2 Bay the
problem is that when you've got these
Gen 5 drives and you've got a lot of
adapters you're potentially introducing
a lot of errors or connectivity or it's
like is the drive okay or is it actually
something with all the interconnects and
the adapters
whereas with this pcie adapter it's
basically native that is a much more
native connection than when you're doing
something like this this will work in a
pinch this isn't really recommended for
Enterprise use at the highest end but
I've had several of these in use with
Samsung 990s for like a database server
where I've got you know eight of these
in an array and it's part of a cluster
so I'm not really worried if it's not
179 of uptime reliability that's worked
really well but in this video I really
just want to mount those M do2s directly
on to a pcie carrier because that is
direct that is going to be more reliable
and this adapter card from IC do is
designed explicitly for Gen 5 let's take
a closer look so in addition to the card
that you get in the Box you also get
these carriers and these carriers is
part plastic and part aluminum and the
aluminum part it comes with heat pads
and everything else and this is designed
to hold up to 2280 m.2 then you end up
this with this fairly elaborate
spring-loaded Contraption which then
slides into the
card so basically you go on your bi you
set the option you install the card and
then boom you're good to go we just got
to do that three more times so what's it
like actually running a workstation with
16 terabytes of storage for a couple of
weeks now while testing Linux and
windows very different
experiences so for Windows our Falcon
North West system is based around the
sapphire Rapids CPU Intel Sapphire
Rapids and it also supports vrock now
vck on Windows is actually really
interesting virtual radon chip the idea
is that Intel has done a lot of work to
try to offload as much of the CPU
software raid processing as possible to
the parts of the CPU that accelerate
those
operations Real World what that means is
that bypasses a lot of windows cruff but
on Linux it's basically the same as
Linux MD so it's not really accurate to
say that it's the same facility as Linux
MD but on Windows but it is functionally
compatible meaning that I can have a
volume that is mountable on both Linux
and windows via the vrock machinery and
the vrock mailbox and special device and
all of that stuff works exactly as it
should it's able to do its consistency
raid five all that works exactly the way
that you would expect which is awesome
you need a common file system between
Windows and Linux but this is useful for
getting Apple's to Apple's comparison
numbers between the platforms you see I
also tested with uh just creating a
software volume in Windows that is the
least performance so if you're on the
Intel platform it's worth getting a
vrock key and doing that uh for Windows
for Linux you can run Linux MD the
performance of vrock and Linux MD uh on
you know under Linux is very similar
it's basically identical at this point
but it is functionally a little
different there's a couple of things
that um well one of the big things that
vrock does is it changes the way that
the PCI devices are enumerated which is
useful for Linux MD uh and there's a
couple of little minor performance
tweaks so it's slightly more stable and
it's slightly better in vck mode than
Linux MD mode but Linux MD doesn't
require a key so that is that is neither
here nor there it's a delightful
Hardware experience now that I've got an
IC do module to be able to mix and match
my m.2 each one of them is 4 terabyt
each one of them can manage you know 16
gigabytes per second but even with that
you know Crystal dis mark my software
performance numbers here we top out at
about 35.9 gbes per second so these are
actually worst case scenario numbers in
terms of performance the other thing you
have to keep in mind when you have a
raid volume like this is that things
that are Q depth one where you can't
have a lot of threads there not really
an easy way for one thread to keep
devices this fast engaged across the
whole platform it's the other reason I
went with the xon X for this part of the
thing is because I could overclock the
beesus out of it now something
interesting happened when I switched
platforms to Turin Turin is a server
platform zen5 Zen
4 zen4 is not going to do much for us
here Zen Zen 4 on the desk like why
don't you test zen4 like a 99 50x this
kind of a setup does not make sense for
a 950x because the PCI E Gen 5 storage
is so fast you wouldn't have room for a
GPU look 40 gbt per second on an
unoptimized platform and that is largely
owing to uh operating system overhead
main memory bandwidth on a dual Channel
ddr5 platform is somewhere between 90
and 115 GB per second so our storage is
on the order of as fast as main memory
which is
insane the CPU juggling that volume of
data is not going to have room to do
anything else and it doesn't have the
pcie lanes to do anything else like run
your graphics card so 16 Lanes is not
enough if you want to run this much
storage you could do two like one to two
that would be fine but yeah four you're
going to you're going to need a
workstation you're going to need that
thread Ripper you're going to need that
sci-fi Rapids workstation and chances
are you're going to need Linux this is
also a really interesting thing
workstations the higher in the
workstation the more likely it is to be
running
Linux welcome to
2025 I guess yay Linux all right wo the
biggest Improvement if you do decide to
go vrock a random 4K score 300 or 3,17
microsc that's not
fabulous cuz a single Drive is on the
order of about 100 that's the software
overhead Linux m D you're looking at 400
to 600 give or take vrock is like 390 to
420 450 it's a little more consistent
give or take Turin is also pretty
consistent but you'll need to tune your
Linux kernel so that you give priority
to IO you can actually use tun D to set
you know throughput performance as your
performance profile and then your nvme
will always be fast there's there's a
whole thing you get into with like power
budget and juggling your power budget
and it's like oh I don't have as much
performance for boosting my cores or as
much power budget for boosting my cores
as I do when I'm running the iio at Full
Tilt yeah that's basically a thing but
the icy do the icy do
solution fabulous in server and
workstation contexts with good
compatibility across a bunch of
different motherboards so that is
delightful if you have an application or
a test or something that I can run to
see something interesting for you reach
out on the Forum at me and let me know
that you know maybe we can set it up on
this and see if it speeds something up
dramatically uh about the best thing I
can report from a gaming scenario
standpoint is loading the levels in
Flight Sim really nice that's about it
most like game War clothes it doesn't
really matter this is 100% a workstation
kind of a thing and you're not even
really going to it doesn't make sense to
use this on a desktop part it's going to
take lots of pie C lanes and lots of
memory channels and even this each one
of these m.2 being able to do 16 GB per
second you really should be using an
eight memory Channel platform I know
Intel has a four memory Channel platform
I know there's TRX 50 For Thread Ripper
but eight memory channels actually
populated eight memory
channels when your storage is this fast
good Lord crucial t705 in the IC do all
right I'm going to go play with this now
this is exciting signing out and you can
find me in the level one forums
[Music]